Add OD Documentation (#390)
lightly-ai/lightly-train: docs/source/object_detection.md

        data={
            "path": "base_path_to_your_dataset",
            "train": "images/train2012",
            "val": "images/val2012",
            "names": {
                0: "person",
                1: "bicycle",
                # ...
            },
        }
    )
```

During training, both the

- best (with highest validation mAP<sub>50:95</sub>) and
- last (last validation round as determined by `save_checkpoint_args.save_every_num_steps`)

model weights are exported to `out/my_experiment/exported_models/`, unless disabled in `save_checkpoint_args`. You can use these weights to continue fine-tuning on another task by loading the weights via the `checkpoint` parameter:

```python
import lightly_train

if __name__ == "__main__":
    lightly_train.train_semantic_segmentation(
        out="out/my_experiment",
        model="dinov3/convnext-small-ltdetr", 
        checkpoint="out/my_experiment/exported_models/exported_best.pt", # use the best model to continue training
        data={...},
    )
```

<!-- TODO (Lionel, 10/25) Add instructions for re-using classification head when it is supported. -->

(object-detection-use-model-weights)=

> ### Load the Trained Model from Checkpoint and Predict

Author: It's a bit redundant I agree, but I thought it would be good to have both examples, i.e. loading from local file and loading from a LightlyTrain included checkpoint.

After the training completes, you can load the best model checkpoints for inference like this:

```python
import lightly_train

model = lightly_train.load_model_from_checkpoint(
    "out/my_experiment/exported_models/exported_best.pt"
)
masks = model.predict("path/to/image.jpg")
```

Or use one of the pre-trained model weights directly from LightlyTrain:

```python
import lightly_train

> model = lightly_train.load_model_from_checkpoint(

Author: That should have been done in https://github.com/lightly-ai/lightly-train/pull/373

    checkpoint="dinov3/convnext-tiny-ltdetr-coco"
)

> masks = model.predict("path/to/image.jpg")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
results = model.predict("path/to/image.jpg")
```

```

### Visualize the Result

After making the predictions with the model weights, you can visualize the predicted masks like this:

```python
# ruff: noqa: F821
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from torchvision import io, utils

import lightly_train

model = lightly_train.load_model_from_checkpoint(
    checkpoint="dinov3/convnext-tiny-ltdetr-coco"
)

labels, boxes, scores = model.predict("<image>.jpg").values()

# Visualize predictions.
image_with_boxes = utils.draw_bounding_boxes(
    image=io.read_image("<image>.jpg"),
    boxes=boxes,
    labels=[model.classes[i.item()] for i in labels],
)

fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(30, 30))
ax.imshow(image_with_boxes.permute(1, 2, 0))
fig.savefig("predictions.png")
```

> The predicted boxes are in the normalized (x_min, y_min, x_max, y_max) format.

Reviewer: I don't think they are normalized.

Author: ```suggestion
The predicted boxes are in the absolute (x_min, y_min, x_max, y_max) format, i.e. represent the size of the dimension of the bounding boxes in pixels.
```

## Out

The `out` argument specifies the output directory where all training logs, model exports,
and checkpoints are saved. It looks like this after training:

```text
out/my_experiment
├── checkpoints
│   └── last.ckpt                                       # Last checkpoint
├── exported_models
|   └── exported_last.pt                                # Last model exported (unless disabled)
|   └── exported_best.pt                                # Best model exported (unless disabled)
├── events.out.tfevents.1721899772.host.1839736.0       # TensorBoard logs
└── train.log                                           # Training logs
```

The final model checkpoint is saved to `out/my_experiment/checkpoints/last.ckpt`. The last and best model weights are exported to `out/my_experiment/exported_models/` unless disabled in `save_checkpoint_args`.

```{tip}
Create a new output directory for each experiment to keep training logs, model exports,
and checkpoints organized.
```

(object-detection-data)=

## Data

Lightly**Train** supports training object detection models with images and bounding boxes.

> Every image must have a corresponding annotation file (in [YOLO format](https://labelformat.com/formats/object-detection/yolov5/)) that contains on every line 4 normalized bounding box coordinates (x_center, y_center, width, height) and class IDs for each object in the image.

Author: Good idea. Updated!
